USF-1424: Docs: Multi-website and Multi-storeview implementation with… (#193)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/merchant/multistore.mdx

</FileTree>

Default files are provided in the example content. These files can be customized to suit your needs.

## Global files

These files reside in the root of the project and are shared across all stores.

### Metadata

Metadata entries are managed as bulk (https://www.aem.live/docs/bulk-metadata) in `metadata.xlsx`.
This file overrides Commerce endpoint config files and placeholders based on the `root` page metadata provided. Otherwise, it defaults to the base `/`.

From the root of your project, create a `metadata.xlsx` file with contents similar to the following:

| URL | Root | Placeholders |
|---|---|---|
| /en/** | /en/ | /en/placeholders.json |
| /en_ca/** | /en_ca/ | /en/placeholders.json<br/>/en_ca/placeholders-overrides.json |

The URL value defines the path to the store view. The root value specifies the directory where the `configs.xlsx` files are located. The placeholders value specifies the `placeholders.json` file to use. Adding a new line with another path in this value specifies an override file. Both files will be fetched, and the values in the second file will override those in the first.

> ### Store Switcher

Reviewer: Thanks for including this @anthoula

Create a metadata file and configure settings for the new store view.

1. Create a `metadata.xlsx` file in the root of your project.

1. Set the **root** values to the directory where `configs.xlsx` files are located. The default is `/`.

1. Set the **placeholders** to the `placeholders.json` file to use. The default is `/placeholders.json`.

1. (Optional) Create a `placeholders_overrides.json` file if you have overrides that apply to the Canadian store.

   | Key | Value |
   |---|---|
   | `Cart.Cart.heading` | `Shopping Cart ({count})` |
   | `Cart.Cart.editCart` | `Edit` |

</Task>

<Task>
### Map folders

Update the `fstab.yaml` file of the project to  add folder mapping to the PDP page.

:::note[Code Change Required]
This is the only code change required and must be merged into the `main` branch to take effect.
:::

</Task>

<Task>
### Preview and validate

Finally, preview and publish the new store view.

1. Preview the updated folder `/en_ca/` with [AEM Sidekick]().

1. Validate the storefront experience by accessing the new language/region and testing the rendering, navigation, and data accuracy.

1. Publish the updated folder with the AEM Sidekick folder when ready.

> 

Reviewer: Minor comment: perhaps final step could be to update store-swticher.docx and include link in recommended bulleted structure with title. @anthoula

### Metadata

Metadata entries are managed as bulk (https://www.aem.live/docs/bulk-metadata) in `metadata.xlsx`.
This file overrides Commerce endpoint config files and placeholders based on the `root` page metadata provided. Otherwise, it defaults to the base `/`.

From the root of your project, create a `metadata.xlsx` file with contents similar to the following:

| URL | Root | Placeholders |
|---|---|---|
| /en/** | /en/ | /en/placeholders.json |
| /en_ca/** | /en_ca/ | /en/placeholders.json<br/>/en_ca/placeholders-overrides.json |

The URL value defines the path to the store view. The root value specifies the directory where the `configs.xlsx` files are located. The placeholders value specifies the `placeholders.json` file to use. Adding a new line with another path in this value specifies an override file. Both files will be fetched, and the values in the second file will override those in the first.

### Store Switcher

The `store-switcher.docx` file manages the list of stores that are displayed in a store switcher element.
This file contains a bulleted list that can be nested. Each line must define the display name of your store with an active link to the store.

> 

Reviewer: @keharper @anthoula I suggest putting in the format of what the store-switcher.docx should look like here. 

**Select a store**  
--- 
- United States ($) 
  - [United States ($)](https://main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.page/drafts/multistore/en/)  

- Canada (CA$) 
  - [Canada (EN)](https://main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.page/drafts/multistore/en_ca/) 
  -  [Canada (FR)](https://main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.page/drafts/multistore/en_ca/) 
---

> 

Reviewer: @keharper @anthoula 

Please see the suggested updates/edits to the store-switcher section below: 

> The `store-switcher.docx` file manages the list of stores that are displayed in a store switcher element. This is displayed via a button in the footer that opens a modal containing the list of stores. 
> 
> After you have created the `metadata.xlsx` file in the root of your project with the URL, root, and placeholder values, it is required to create a `store-switcher.docx` file containing a bulleted list that can be nested. Each line must define the display name of your store with an active link to the store:
> 
> **Select a store**
> --- 
> - United States ($)
>   - United States ($)
>  
> - Canada (CA$) 
>   - Canada (EN)
>   - Canada (FR)
>   
> --- 
> 
> If the ‘metadata.docx’ file is published and the ‘store-switcher.docx’ is not published, an error will be thrown requiring that `store-switcher.docx` be created and published. 
> 
> If the user would not like a display a store-switcher in the footer in their storefront, publish an empty `store-switcher.docx` file similar to the following format: 
> 
> **Select a store**  
> --- 
> --- 
>

<Tasks>

<Task>
### Add a new store

Create an `en_ca` store view in the Commerce Admin and perform the following steps in your project.

1. Create the `en_ca` folder under the project root in Sharepoint or Google Docs.

1. Copy the configuration files, placeholders file, and document pages from the `en` directory to the `en_ca` directory.

</Task>

<Task>
### Update Content Files

Next, localize or translate the files in your project.

1. Translate or localize content files in the `/en_ca/` folders.

1. Ensure all labels in `placeholders.xlsx` are accurately translated into the desired language.

</Task>

<Task>
### Update environment configurations

Modify the three configuration files to include appropriate Commerce API endpoints and headers, such as the store view.

</Task>

<Task>
### Set metadata to the chosen market's path

Create a metadata file and configure settings for the new store view.

1. Create a `metadata.xlsx` file in the root of your project.

1. Set the **root** values to the directory where `configs.xlsx` files are located. The default is `/`.

1. Set the **placeholders** to the `placeholders.json` file to use. The default is `/placeholders.json`.

> 

Reviewer: I would add an additional step:

1. Create a `store-switcher.docx` file containing a bulleted list that can be nested.

1. (Optional) Create a `placeholders_overrides.json` file if you have overrides that apply to the Canadian store.

> 

Reviewer: Additional (Optional) option:

1. (Optional) If you do not want to display a store switcher, publish an empty `store-switcher.docx` file.

The Sharepoint file structure of a multi-store is shown below. Remove the `.docx` and `.xlsx` extensions for Google Drive files.

<FileTree>
- **en/** _-- English store (Default root language)_
  - configs.xls _-- Defines API endpoints, headers, and other environment-specific data._
  - placeholders.xlsx _-- Stores reusable tokens for text and UI components._
  - index.docx _-- The home page of the English US store._
- **en_ca/** _-- English Canadian Store_
  - configs.xls _-- Environment specific data for the English Canadian Store_
  - placeholders_overrides.xlsx _-- Entries that override the English store._
  - index.docx _-- The home page of the English Canadian store._
- fstab.yaml _-- Sets mountpoints and folder mappings._
- metadata.xlsx _-- URL, root path, and placeholder mappings for multi-store_
- store-switcher.docx _-- Manages the list of stores and their URL to render in the UI_
</FileTree>

> Default files are provided in the example content. These files can be customized to suit your needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Default files are provided in the sample content. These files can be customized to suit your needs.
```

## Global files

These files reside in the root of the project and are shared across all stores.

### Metadata

Metadata entries are managed as bulk (https://www.aem.live/docs/bulk-metadata) in `metadata.xlsx`.
This file overrides Commerce endpoint config files and placeholders based on the `root` page metadata provided. Otherwise, it defaults to the base `/`.

From the root of your project, create a `metadata.xlsx` file with contents similar to the following:

| URL | Root | Placeholders |
|---|---|---|
| /en/** | /en/ | /en/placeholders.json |
| /en_ca/** | /en_ca/ | /en/placeholders.json<br/>/en_ca/placeholders-overrides.json |

> The URL value defines the path to the store view. The root value specifies the directory where the `configs.xlsx` files are located. The placeholders value specifies the `placeholders.json` file to use. Adding a new line with another path in this value specifies an override file. Both files will be fetched, and the values in the second file will override those in the first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **URL** value defines the path to the store view. The **root** value specifies the directory where the `configs.xlsx` files are located. The **placeholders** value specifies the `placeholders.json` file to use. Adding a new line with another path for placeholders specifies an override file. Both files will be fetched, and the values in the second file will override those in the first.
```

### Store Switcher

> The `store-switcher.docx` file manages the list of stores that are displayed in a store switcher element. This is displayed as a button in the footer that opens a modal containing the list of stores.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `store-switcher` file adds the list of stores displayed in the store-switcher component. This component renders a button in the footer that opens a modal containing the stores within the `store-switcher` file.
```

> After you have created the `metadata.xlsx` file in the root of your project with the URL, root, and placeholder values, you must create a `store-switcher.docx` file containing a bulleted list that can be nested. Each line must define the display name of your store with an active link to the store, as shown below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After creating the `metadata.xlsx` file in the root of your project with the URL, root, and placeholder values, you must create a `store-switcher.docx` file containing a bulleted list. Each line must define the display name of your store with an active link to the store, as shown below:
```

```text
**Select a store:**

```text
- United States (USD) 
  - [United States (USD)](https://main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.page/drafts/multistore/en/)  
- Canada (CAD) 
  - [Canada (EN)](https://main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.page/drafts/multistore/en_ca/) 
  - [Canada (FR)](https://main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.page/drafts/multistore/fr_ca/) 
```

### Folder mapping

> Add folder mapping to the product detail pages (PDP) in the `fstab.yaml` file of the project. This is the only code change required and must be merged into the `main` branch to take effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add folder mapping to the product detail pages (PDP) in the project's `fstab.yaml` file. This is the only code change required, but it must be merged into the `main` branch to take effect.
```

> From the root of your project, create a `fstab.yaml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add folder mapping, open the `fstab.yaml` file in your project's root as shown in the `folders:` section:
```

```yaml
export const exampleCode = `mountpoints:
  /: https://example.mountpoint.com/:f:/r/sites/myproject

folders:
  /products/: /products/default
  /en/products/: /en/products/default
  /en_ca/products/: /en_ca/products/default`;

> export const fileName = 'fstab.yaml';

Reviewer 2: Double check the contents of the default `fstab.yaml` file. These lines from 94 down look like a mistake.

Author: These export statements are for formatting the code snippet using the `Code` component in Astro Starlight.

export const highlights = ['file', 'CMS'];

<Code code={exampleCode} lang="yaml" title={fileName} mark={highlights} />
```

## Store-specific files

> The content, configuration, and placeholder files help define the experience in each store view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The content, configuration, and placeholder files help define the experience in each store view as described here.
```

### Content files

> The content files provide the structure of the pages that are served to your shoppers. are located in the store view directories and contain the content for each store view. These files are typically in the form of `.docx` files and are used to generate the store view pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The content files provide the structure of the pages served to your shoppers. They are located in the store view directories and contain the content for each store view. These files are typically SharePoint `.docx` or Google document files used to generate the store view pages.
```

### Configuration files

Each store view has its own set of configuration files. The `configs.xlsx` file defines the API endpoints, headers, and other environment-specific data for your production environment. The `configs-stage.xlsx` and `configs-dev.xlsx` files are used for staging and development environments, respectively.

### Placeholders

> The `placeholders.xlsx` file stores reusable tokens for text and UI components. This file is used to define the text that is displayed on your storefront. The `placeholders.json` file is generated from this file and is used to replace the tokens in your content files. You can optionally create a `placeholders-overrides.json` file that define text that supersedes the values defined in the `en` store view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `placeholders.xlsx` file stores reusable tokens for text and UI components. This file is used to define the text that is displayed on your storefront. The `placeholders.json` file is generated from this file and is used to replace the tokens in your content files. Optionally, you can create a `placeholders-overrides.json` file to define text values that supersede those specified in the `en` store view.
```

## Step-by-Step

> This example adds a new English Canadian store view (`en_ca`) that is similar to the default English store (`en`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These steps show you how to add a new English Canadian store view (`en_ca`) similar to the default English store (`en`).
```

<Tasks>

<Task>
### Add a new store

Create an `en_ca` store view in the Commerce Admin and perform the following steps in your project.

1. Create the `en_ca` folder under the project root in Sharepoint or Google Docs.

1. Copy the configuration files, placeholders file, and document pages from the `en` directory to the `en_ca` directory.

</Task>

<Task>
### Update Content Files

Next, localize or translate the files in your project.

1. Translate or localize content files in the `/en_ca/` folders.

> 1. Ensure all labels in `placeholders.xlsx` are accurately translated into the desired language.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Ensure all labels in `placeholders` file (SharePoint `.xlsx` or Google sheet) are accurately translated into the desired language.
```

</Task>

<Task>
### Update environment configurations

Modify the three configuration files to include appropriate Commerce API endpoints and headers, such as the store view.

</Task>

<Task>
### Set metadata to the chosen market's path

Create a metadata file and configure settings for the new store view.

> 1. Create a `metadata.xlsx` file in the root of your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a `metadata` file (SharePoint `.xlsx` or Google sheet) in the root of your project.
```

> 1. Set the **root** values to the directory where `configs.xlsx` files are located. The default is `/`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set the **root** values to the directory where the `configs` files are located. The default is `/`.
```

1. Set the **placeholders** to the `placeholders.json` file to use. The default is `/placeholders.json`.

> 1. Create a `store-switcher.docx` file and include a link to the new store view. If you do not want to display a store switcher, publish an empty `store-switcher.docx` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a `store-switcher` file (SharePoint `.docx` Google sheet) and include a link to the new store view. If you do not want to display a store switcher, publish an empty `store-switcher` file.
```

1. (Optional) Create a `placeholders_overrides.json` file if you have overrides that apply to the Canadian store.

   | Key | Value |
   |---|---|
   | `Cart.Cart.heading` | `Shopping Cart ({count})` |
   | `Cart.Cart.editCart` | `Edit` |

</Task>

<Task>
### Map folders

> Update the `fstab.yaml` file of the project to  add folder mapping to the PDP page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update the project's `fstab.yaml` file to add folder mapping to the PDP page.
```

:::note[Code Change Required]
This is the only code change required and must be merged into the `main` branch to take effect.
:::

</Task>

<Task>
### Preview and validate

Finally, preview and publish the new store view.

1. Preview the updated folder `/en_ca/` with [AEM Sidekick](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-cloud-service/content/edge-delivery/resources/sidekick/sidekick).

1. Validate the storefront experience by accessing the new language/region and testing the rendering, navigation, and data accuracy.

> 1. Publish the updated folder with the AEM Sidekick folder when ready.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Publish the updated folder using the AEM Sidekick folder when ready.
```

> 1. Update the `store-switcher.docx` file to include a link to the new store view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Update the `store-switcher` file (SharePoint .docx or Google sheet) to include a link to the new store view.
```
